This is the second topic of Cybersecurity
One
Security Control and Framework Types. Here's the outline
of the lesson, First, we're going to talk about the various
types of control, and Second, we'll be talking about Framework
Types. The first type of control is preventive controls.
It prevents any security breach from occuring.
It is aimed at preventing an incident from occuring.
Examples of these preventive controls are security guards,
biometrics and security cameras. Detective controls.
This attempt to detect any break in that has already happened.
It aims to detect incidents after they have occured.
Such tools to be used are security audit, visual surveillance
system and motion detection system.
Next is Corrective controls.
It attempts to reverse the impact of an incident or problem
after it has occured.
It aims to reverse the impact of an incident.
Such examples we use or actions to be do
are intrusion detection system, backups and system recovery.
Next is Deterrent controls, which attempts to prevent incidents
by discouraging threats.
It aims to discourage individuals from causing accident.
Such examples of tools that can be used in this control are
cable locks and hardware locks.
Compensating controls
These are alternative controls used when a primary control
is not visible.
Such examples of this are time-based one-time password and
pin number.
Next, we're going to talk about the Cybersecurity Framework
types. The first framework type would be NIST Cybersecurity
Framework. It is established by the National Institute of
Standards and Technology and most widely used by American
companies. It offers the assurance of having being developed
by US federal government in collaboration with private businesses.
It offers detailed guidance on everything from risk assessment
and continuous monitoring to incident response and awareness
training. Next on the list is ISO, which is designed to provide
a framework for achieving a certified level of data security
compliance that needs external assessment standards.
It is developed by the International Organization of Standardization
and the International Electrotechnical Commission.
It is designed to ensure a level of data privacy and confidentiality
that not only helps companies avoid prosecution but also
to maximize operational efficiencies through reduction of
vulnerability to disruptive attacks.
Next is the Critical Security Controls Framework developed
by the Sans Institute.
It offers an expert level understanding of cybersecurity,
and it is a claim for breaking down those insights into three
manageable and actionable categories.
This framework provides a defense mechanism to ensure that
authorized personnel are accessing appropriate data and assets.
Last on the list is COBIT, which stands for Control Objectives
for Information-related Technology.
It is designed to guarantee the integrity of organization's
data infrastructure from operational perspective.
It offers a tool for managers to assess risks and eliminate
weak spots
from a big perspective.
It also provides a means for ensuring data security while
avoiding the wasted resources that come with the application
effort.